# Step to clone the git hub repositsary.
git clone githublink


Use case:
Why we need to put code on github.
1.
Two devloper working on same project.
kushal
vikrant
these are living in two diff countries.
they are working on the same project.
 they can clone the github as we did and share the code.

kushal - us
vikrant- in

create a repo...sample
sample
kushal example.txt
vikrant example.txt.. he has send this file to sample report. but didn't informed. 1:pm
kushal is also creating a file example2.txt. 2:00 PM
when kushal try to send this file to git.. he will get message like you do not have updated
contend.
not need to clone everytime. this is only for first time.
for this we have to download missing files. it will all the files in the git hub system.
and bring the missing files in our system.
git pull: To bring changes
after bringing the missing file. we are able to puch code in the git hub report.

2. Version control system.(Basically you would be have backup of your code).
3. Branching:

whwn ever we are working on some project. we need to keep one thing in mind that maintenance.
 main branch: on 10th june requirement is to create hello world app. release 1
on 20th june requirement is to ass ui. release 2.

main branch.. orignal(main)
  replica branch(intergration branch)
  release 1 june 15--testing done file then try to check on 12 june in integration branch.. then add these changes to main branch 15 june. so client can see.
  then create branch using integration for relese 2. 18 june create.. then test then merge this with integration.. the merge with orinal.

step by step:
1. intergration branch.
Case 1. when we create rel-1_june 15 <<--11th june.. developed "hello world"
on14th june ing branch the hello world is avaible.
case 2. we created rel2 june-20.. "hello world" is missing. 17th june completed requirement 2 well tested. bug free.
18th june we are going yo merge in the intergration branch. on 18 june.. in the intergration branch. do we have intergration branch. yes.
if its working then we will merge in the main branch.

Merge conflick.
when two people write code on the same line. then there will be conflict which one we need to keep. either you want to keep both, take one.


Docker. it cal run in any system(linux,mac and window)
1. Postability of our code.
2. Container.( we can say that its a virtual machine, its a kind of hardware) your application will be managed by container.
3. Image
4. Isolation


example 1.
>> pycharm/vscode
>> python interprator
>> venv
>> installed liberaries
>> project code

dockeriezed>> docker image>

dowload the docker image
docker pull image name
docker run img name

Prerequites is any project..
you need OS at intialsystem.

instruction to set up coomands to create docker image
create a docker file.. few line of code we have to right
1 which os.
2.set folderWorking direcotry.(creating folder)
3. Copy code(we will have requirement.txt in it as well)
4.venv( Create and activate)
5.pip install -r requirement.txt.

to create image.. build image-- d


docker provide run time enviroment.